# My Relevant Work Thus Far:

### [COVID-19 Statistical Analysis Project](https://github.com/TheDoff/COVIDWastewaterEMRProject):
In the Spring of 2024, I took on an ambitious group project in my Statistical Practicum (STAT 460) class to analyze the relationship between the viral activity of COVID-19 in wastewater and change in excess mortality (both at the national level). The primary goal of this analysis was to see if we could predict the rise/fall in excess mortality using changes in levels of COVID-19 found in wastewater. This project leveraged my R programming skills that I learned and strengthened in Applied Regression Analysis (STAT 320), Data Visualization and Communication (STAT 336), and Computational Statistics and Analytics (STAT 360) to a data type that I had little experience with (but would quickly familiarize myself both in this and my computer science capstone project): time series. The largest struggle with this (and most statistical analysis) projects revolved around the collection and cleaning of the data we needed which was hosted on multiple sites (CDC NWSS and CDC Wonder). Ensuring dates were formatted correctly was a problem encountered early on that would later resurface in my CISC capstone project, as the latter would also necessitate proper style of dates to allow for charting of student commit data. The following analysis proved quite simple computationally but conceptionally my mind had to wrap around ARIMA (autoregressive integrated moving average, used for predicting future time series data using one dataset) and VAR (vector autoregression, used for predicting future time series data using multiple datasets), the two primary statistical tools used in the analysis. As a data science major (in addition to computer science), this project served as the culmination of my statistical programming prowess while also serving a greater good in early disease warning (as our created models had high predictive/explanatory power).

### [University Book Fetch System](https://github.com/TheDoff/UniversityBookFetchSystem)
To wrap up my database class (CISC 450) in the Fall of 2023, we (myself and four other peers) were tasked with creating a program that simulated a book purchasing system common to a university. We had spent most of the semester conceptionalizing the system (creating the tables, diagrams, and schemas customary of a relational database) but had to finally implement our design in a programming medium of our choosing. With only a week alotted to this task, my group opted for a simple yet effective Python command line program that would emulate the book fetch experience. As my first programming language, Python has been put to use in a variety of previous courses and assignments, but I had never created a Python program that communicated between multiple files, so I fittingly found that to be the largest challenge of this project. The rest of our work was more tedious than challenging, as we had to account for input validation and option selection through a multitude of conditional statements (we had to account for multiple features on the site, whether that be searching for books, adding them to your cart, and entering the checkout process). This project prepared me for CISC capstone by forcing me to get familiar with collaborating with others on GitHub and getting in the process of pulling others' changes all the while committing/pushing my own. Our end product, while crude, served as a predecessor to more formidable projects found in subsequent classes and projects.

### [Blink Detection Research Project](https://github.com/TheDoff/BlinkDetection)
Interested in pursuing research with Dr. Eric Rawdon at UST, a fellow peer and I took on an exploratory project regarding Python's capabilities for facial feature tracking/detection. With forensic applications in mind (assessing someone's body language to validate their truthfulness), Rawdon wanted us to assess the current state of open source software that could be used to detect someone blinking (either in an uploaded video or in real time). After learning about the popular Python libraries used in computer vision and landmark tracking (such as cv2 and dlib), we set out to create our own program that could isolate a subject's eyes, calculate the distance between the top and bottom of their eyelids, and thereby detect when they were blinking once this distance reached a certain threshold. Our end product, a rudimentary demonstration of such technology, aided me in familiarizing myself with the process of researching and implementing external dependencies in my programming projects, a skill put to use in my CISC capstone project where I had to research and learn how to implement chart.js' various compatible date adapters (required to properly read/format time related data in visualizations). 
